in previous videos we talked about the
gradient descent algorithm and we talked
about the linear regression model and
the squared error cost function in this
video we're going to put together a
gradient descent with our cost function
and that will give us an algorithm for
linear regression for fitting a straight
line to our data so this is what we
worked out in their previous videos
there's our gradient descent algorithm
which should be familiar and here's the
linear regression model with our linear
linear hypothesis and our squared error
cost function what we're going to do is
apply gradient descent to minimize our
squared error cost function now in order
to apply gradient descent in order to
you know write this piece of code the
key term we need is this derivative term
over here so you need to figure out what
is this partial derivative term and
plugging in the definition of the cost
function J this turns out to be this sum
from I equals 1 through n of this
squared error cost function term and all
I did here was I just you know plugged
in the definition of the cost function
there and simplifying a little bit more
this turns out to be equal to this sum
from I equals 1 through m of theta 0
plus theta 1 X I minus y I squared and
all I did there was I took the
definition for my hypothesis and plugged
it in there and turns out we need to
figure out what is this partial
derivative for two cases for J equals 0
and for J equals 1 so we want to figure
out what is this partial derivative for
you know both the theta 0 case and the
theta 1 case and I'm just going to write
out the answers it turns out this first
term is
simplifies to 1 over m sum from open my
training set of just that X I minus y i
and for this term partial derivative
respect to theta 1 it turns out I get
this term minus y I times X I okay
and computing these partial derivatives
to let you know going from this equation
right going from this equation to either
of the equations down there computing
those partial derivative terms requires
some multivariate calculus if you know
calculus feel free to work through the
derivations yourself and check that if
you take the derivatives you actually
get the answers that I got but if you
are less familiar with calculus you know
don't worry about it and it's fine to
just take these equations that worked
out and you won't need to know calculus
or anything like that in order to do the
homeworks or to implement gradient
descent and get that to work but so
armed with these definitions or armed
with what we worked out to be the
derivatives which is really just the
slope of the cost function J we can now
plug them back into our gradient descent
algorithm
so here's gradient descent for linear
regression
we're going to repeat until convergence
theta 0 and theta 1 get updated as you
know just a minus alpha times the
derivative term so this term here so
here's our linear regression algorithm
this first term here
that term is of course just the partial
derivative respect to theta 0 it will
worked out on a previous slide and this
second term here that term is just the
partial derivative respect to theta 1
then we worked out on the previous line
and just as a quick reminder you must
when implementing great incentives
actually this detail that you know you
should be implementing it so the update
theta 0 and theta 1 simultaneously so
let's see how gradient descent works one
of the issues we solve gradient descent
is that it can be susceptible to local
optima so when I first explained radians
then I showed you this picture of it you
know going down along the surface and we
saw how depending on where you
initialize it you can end up at
different local optima and 1wo here or
here but it turns out that the cost
function for gradient of cost function
for linear regression is always going to
be a bow shaped function like this um
the technical term for this is that this
is called a convex function and not
going to give the formal definition so
what is a convex function Co and V X but
then formally a convex function means a
bowl-shaped function you know kinda like
a bow shaped and so this function
doesn't have any local optima except for
the one global optimum and does gradient
descent on this type of cost function
which you get whenever you're using
linear regression it will always
converge to the global optimum because
there are no other local optima auditing
or global optimum so now let's see this
algorithm in action as usual here are
plots of the hypothesis function and of
my cost function J and so let's say I've
initialized my parameters at this value
you know let's say instead usually you
initialize your parameters at 0 0 theta
there we go zero but for illustration in
this in this particular implementation
of unison I've initialized you know
theta zero at about nine hundred and
theta one at about minus 0.1 okay
and so this corresponds to H of x equals
you know minus 900 minus 0.1 X so this
is this line so out here on on the cost
function now if we take one step with
great descent we end up going from this
point out here a little bit to the down
and left to that second point over there
and you notice that my line changed a
little bit and as I take another step of
grading the Zen my line on the Left will
change right and I've also moved to a
new point on my cost function and as I
take further steps of grading descent
I'm going down in cost right so my
parameter is instead of following this
trajectory and if you look on the left
this corresponds to hypotheses that you
know seem to be getting to be better and
better fits in the data until eventually
I have now wound up at the global
minimum and this global minimum
corresponds to this hypothesis which
gives me a good fit to the data
and so that's gradient descent and we've
just run it and gotten a good fit to my
data set of housing prices and you can
now use it to predict you know if your
friend has a house that costs website
1250 square feet you can now read off
the value and tell them that I know
maybe they can get two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars for their house finally
just to give this another name it turns
out that the algorithm that we just went
over is sometimes called batch gradient
descent and it turns out in machine
learning on there I feel like us machine
learning people were not always great at
giving me into algorithms but the term
batch gradient descent
means that refers to the fact that in
every step of gradient descent were
looking at all of the training examples
so in gradient descent you know when
computing different derivatives we're
computing these sums right this summer
so in every step of gradient descent we
end up computing something like this
that sums over our M training examples
and so the term batch gradient descent
refers the fact that we're looking at
the entire batch of training examples
again this is really maybe not a great
name but this is what machine learning
people call it and it turns out that
there are sometimes other versions of
gradient descent that are not batch
versions but that instead do not look at
the entire training set but look at
small subsets on the training set at a
time and we'll talk about those versions
later in the schools as well but for now
using the album you just learned about
or using batch gradient descent you now
know how to implement gradient descent
for linear regression so that's linear
regression with gradient descent if
you've seen advanced linear algebra
before so some of you may have taken a
calls in you know advanced linear
algebra you might know that there exists
a solution for numerically solving for
the minimum of the cost function J we're
about needing to use an iterative
algorithm like gradient descent later in
this course we'll talk about that method
as well that just solves for the minimum
the cost function J without needing you
know this multiple steps of gradient
descent that other method is called the
normal equations method and but in case
you've heard of that method it turns out
that gradient descent will scale better
to larger data sets than that normal
equation method and now that we know
about grading descent we'll be able to
use it in lots of different contexts and
we'll use it in lots of different
machine learning problems as well so
congrats on learning about your first
machine learning algorithm well later
have exercises in which we'll ask you to
implement gradient descent and hopefully
see these albums were open yourselves
but before that I first want to tell you
in the NICS of the video so the first
one to tell you about a generalization
of the gradient descent algorithm
they'll make it much more powerful and I
guess I'll tell you about that in the
next video